# #22 For clang turn warnings to 'on' and remove '-pedantic' to avoid Boost PP... [Merged]

> Username: eldiener  
> Created at: 2014-08-04 23:36:47 UTC  
> Updated at: 2014-08-05 09:10:05 UTC  
> Merged at: 2014-08-05 09:10:05 UTC  
> Closed at: 2014-08-05 09:10:05 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/thread/pull/22  

clang needs warnings to be 'on' with no -pedantic to avoid Boost PP warnings.

---

## Comment 1

> Username: ned14  
> Created_at: 2014-08-05 09:09:59 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/thread/pull/22#issuecomment-51170390  

Vicente (who is currently on vacation so this is a note for this return): this is part of a workaround for tens of megabytes of warnings spew generated by clang during compilation of Thread, Chrono, Test and a number of other libraries. It occurs in 1.56 because Edward turned on variadic macros support for clang in Preprocessor, and Thread and those other libraries defines pedantic warnings which causes every use of variadic macros to generate a warning plus context of use dump. This workaround simply turns off pedantic warnings on clang only.  
  
I'm only going to apply this workaround to master for the 1.56 release branch only. For develop branch for 1.57 we need something better e.g. remove all inclusion of Preprocessor completely on compilers which provide variadic templates. Thread should not be using Preprocessor _at_ _all_ in modern compilers. I'm happy to do the work required as my poor CI's disc usage has increased by a gigabyte of valuable SSD space due to this bug, I cannot understate the anger I feel about Boost's weak and lax attitude about this issue for an official release ... :(  
  
Thanks Edward for making a fix happen. I believe I owe you a favour now.  
  
Niall

---
