# #11 more robust implementation for BOOST_RANGE_EXTRACT_OPTIONAL_TYPE [Merged]

> Username: ericniebler  
> Created at: 2014-06-16 07:02:42 UTC  
> Updated at: 2014-07-14 20:22:10 UTC  
> Merged at: 2014-06-16 09:37:56 UTC  
> Closed at: 2014-06-16 09:37:56 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11  

I wonder if you'd be willing to accept this more robust implementation for the `BOOST_RANGE_EXTRACT_OPTIONAL_TYPE` macro? I've had random failures on MSVC with the current implementation is situations where I get a hard error instead of SFINAE in the defaulted template parameter. Thanks.

---

## Comment 1

> Username: neilgroves  
> Created_at: 2014-06-16 09:38:28 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-46158711  

Thanks for this patch Eric. I've merged and pushed on the develop branch.  
  
I really appreciate putting the patch together. I think I might have had trouble reproducing the issue so this is much more efficient.

---

## Comment 2

> Username: ericniebler  
> Created_at: 2014-06-19 20:52:30 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-46615028  

Strange. MSVC seems to have some trouble with this. (See the accumulators rolling_count test for an example.) I'll investigate.

---

## Comment 3

> Username: neilgroves  
> Created_at: 2014-06-19 21:25:37 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-46618864  

Eric,  
  
I’ve seen this type of problem with MSVC before. It’s getting messed up with the namespaces. There is a type that is legitimately in another namespace and it confuses this with a constructor. If you change the name of iterator to iterator_impl the problem disappears. I investigated something similar recently. I appreciate this sounds like a crazy hypothesis! You can confirm changing the name of the type, despite being in a completely different namespace solves the issue.  
  
I’d be interested in your thoughts. I hope this helps.  
  
Regards,  
Neil  
  
On 19 Jun 2014, at 21:52, Eric Niebler notifications@github.com wrote:  
  
> Strange. MSVC seems to have some trouble with this. (See the accumulators rolling_count test for an example.) I'll investigate.  
>   
> —  
> Reply to this email directly or view it on GitHub.

---

## Comment 4

> Username: ericniebler  
> Created_at: 2014-06-22 21:21:32 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-46793372  

This does seems to be the problem. It's getting mixed up with `boost::cb_details::iterator` in Boost.Circular_buffer. I could rename that type to something else, but that hardly seems like a solution. I'm really at a loss for how to work around this bug. It's awful.

---

## Comment 5

> Username: neilgroves  
> Created_at: 2014-06-23 08:56:15 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-46820135  

I agree that this bug is awful. We really only have two options as I see it:  
1. Abandon support for MSVC  
2. Rename the iterator type  
  
Since the type is within the cb_details namespace I think that this is the optimal solution within the constraints.  
  
I do not consider backing out the changes to Boost.Range as a solution since the problem can still occur in user code. This would merely get our tests to miss the problem condition.  
  
In parallel I shall see if I can put together a small test case and report the bug to Microsoft. I really should have reported this problem when I first detected it. I wanted someone to confirm my hypothesis since it seemed so unlikely.

---

## Comment 6

> Username: neilgroves  
> Created_at: 2014-06-23 09:13:53 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-46821737  

I have reported this as a defect on Microsoft Connect as issue 903452.  
  
http://connect.microsoft.com/VisualStudio/feedback/details/903452/c-namespace-lookup-resolves-to-the-wrong-symbol

---

## Comment 7

> Username: ericniebler  
> Created_at: 2014-06-23 16:21:47 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-46867324  

I've changed my thinking. I don't believe this is an msvc bug. I've looked at the code generated by the `BOOST_MPL_HAS_XXX_TRAIT_DEF` and created a small test case. Here it is:  
  
```  
struct iterator  
{  
  iterator() {}  
};  
  
struct vector  
{  
    typedef int* iterator;  
};  
  
template<typename T>  
struct has_iterator_impl  
{  
  typedef void type;  
};  
  
template<typename T, typename Dummy = void>  
struct has_iterator  
{  
  static const bool value = false;  
};  
  
template<typename T>  
struct has_iterator<T, typename has_iterator_impl<typename T::iterator>::type>  
{  
  static const bool value = true;  
};  
  
int main()  
{  
  static_assert(!has_iterator<int>::value, "ok");  
  static_assert(has_iterator<vector>::value, "ok");  
  static_assert(!has_iterator<iterator>::value, "oops"); // FAILURE HERE  
}  
```  
  
The last static assert fires. The problem happens when asking a type _that happens to be a class named `iterator`_ if it has a nested type named `iterator`. For some reason, the presence of the constructor causes the answer to be "yes". The funny thing is, clang and gcc behave identically. This tells me that `BOOST_MPL_HAS_XXX_TRAIT_DEF` _must_ be generating different code for msvc, and that only the msvc-specific code has this bug.  
  
My guess is that gcc and clang allow a more sophisticated implementation of `BOOST_MPL_HAS_XXX_TRAIT_DEF` that avoids the constructor issue. There must be some other bug in msvc -- or in an earlier version of msvc -- that causes the more sophisticated solution to fail; hence, the sub-par solution that fails in this case. But I didn't have time to finish my investigation.

---

## Comment 8

> Username: ericniebler  
> Created_at: 2014-06-24 20:48:51 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-47028710  

I have confirmed that removing the msvc-specific work-arounds in boost/mpl/has_xxx.hpp fixes the problem. The trick now is in understanding what motivated the workaround in the first place and figuring out at what point the work-around became unnecessary (if, indeed, it is).  
  
This is possibly related: https://svn.boost.org/trac/boost/ticket/1317  
  
Another question is why SFINAE in class partial specialization behaves differently than SFINAE in function overload resolution, as appears to be the case. Or if it even should.This is a question for a compiler dev and/or the standardization committee.

---

## Comment 9

> Username: ericniebler  
> Created_at: 2014-06-27 05:42:33 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-47309693  

Once [boostorg/mpl#8] gets merged, Boost.Range will work again for all versions of msvc greater than 8. If we want to support msvc-8, then additional hacking is necessary. VC8 is 9 years old. How important is it to support it?

---

## Comment 10

> Username: Rastaban  
> Created_at: 2014-06-30 20:29:56 UTC  
> Updated_at: 2014-06-30 21:28:22 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-47582641  

I am on the MSVC++ team and was just starting to look into Connect defect 903452.  Reading through your comments it looks like you guys have it figured out, so unless you tell me otherwise I am going to close the defect.  
  
Regards,  
Phil Christensen  
philc@microsoft.com

---

## Comment 11

> Username: ericniebler  
> Created_at: 2014-06-30 22:28:04 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-47595673  

@Rastaban, yes, that's correct. This is not an msvc defect, AFAIK. Thanks for looking into it.

---

## Comment 12

> Username: ericniebler  
> Created_at: 2014-07-03 00:15:09 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-47853189  

@neilgroves Well, this is disappointing. boostorg/mpl#8 fixed the issue on msvc-11.0 and msvc-12.0, but msvc-8.0, -9.0, and -10.0 are still busted. That won't do. I can't think of a way to work around the issue. I'm inclined to revert this (boostorg/range#11) change.

---

## Comment 13

> Username: neilgroves  
> Created_at: 2014-07-03 10:41:39 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-47891469  

@ericniebler While it is disappointing that it didn't work out, I agree with attempting the fix in MPL. There was always an element of probability in any approach. I'm clearly not going to stand in the way of making progress, particularly with a release coming up. I wonder if the best approach isn't to change the name of the circular_buffer iterator class. This would appear to solve the SFINAE issues that motivated your patch while eliminating the side-effects of the patch. It seems a shame to lose your improvement.  
  
Please do whatever you think is right. I'm happy for you to alter Range if this helps. I'd be happy to do something now to help the release, and come back to the issue later if this is optimal.  
  
While this is rather unhelpful in fixing this Boost issue, I believe that it is a Microsoft compiler bug that causes a typename T::iterator to be confused by a constructor function pointer. Surely the use of "typename" makes it explicit that it is not referencing a function? I can't find a single other compiler that behaves in this manner, although I except that this doesn't make the MS implementation wrong.

---

## Comment 14

> Username: ericniebler  
> Created_at: 2014-07-14 20:22:10 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/range/pull/11#issuecomment-48954285  

@neilgroves Reverting this change doesn't fix the problem. Only #14 does the trick. It's admittedly a hack, but it's only needed for older versions of msvc.

---
