# #269 GitHub 267 [Closed]

> Username: schorsch1976  
> Created at: 2022-10-14 11:36:14 UTC  
> Updated at: 2024-01-09 20:25:49 UTC  
> Closed at: 2024-01-09 20:25:49 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/serialization/pull/269  

Hello,   
  
Here is a crafted pull request for review. I created a test to test the serializations (test_string.cpp) but there i also encountered some failure (line 144 test_string.cpp). As far as i understand these failure is not dependent on my changes.  
  
https://github.com/schorsch1976/serialization/blob/github-267/test/test_string.cpp#L144  
  
My current implementation is a copy enclosed in BOOST_NO_CXX17_HDR_MEMORY_RESOURCE with changed signatures.   
  
Please let me know any ideas on the code.

---

## Comment 1

> Username: robertramey  
> Created_at: 2023-08-24 23:46:14 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/serialization/pull/269#issuecomment-1692555341  

What is the purpose of these changes?  It looks like it's mean to replace std::string to std::pmr string.  Is that it?  what advantage would that be.  What if one saves data to an archive on a compiler pre C++17 and tries to load it with code compiled with a C++17+ compiler?  Would that work?  It's not obvious here.  Lots of questions.  Need more narrative explanation

---

## Comment 2

> Username: robertramey  
> Created_at: 2023-08-24 23:46:48 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/serialization/pull/269#issuecomment-1692555682  

FYI - test_string works fine with all compilers as far as I know.

---

## Comment 3

> Username: schorsch1976  
> Created_at: 2023-08-25 16:04:48 UTC  
> Updated_at: 2023-08-25 16:10:13 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/serialization/pull/269#issuecomment-1693588838  

The purpose of this change is that you can change the string representation in your code to std::pmr::string and have the same binary representation without any changes.   
  
```  
struct s // old one  
{  
    std::string msg;  
    template<class Archive>  
    void serialize(Archive & ar, const unsigned int version)  
    {  
        ar & BOOST_SERIALIZATION_NVP(msg);  
    }  
};  
struct s // new one  
{  
    std::pmr::string msg;  
    template<class Archive>  
    void serialize(Archive & ar, const unsigned int version)  
    {  
        ar & BOOST_SERIALIZATION_NVP(msg);  
    }  
};  
  
```  
would both serialize into/from `<msg>mytext</msg>`. As they serialize into the same representation, you can serialize with a c++17 library and read it with a c++03 library and vica verse.  
  
When you look at my change, you see that i adopted the function signature but the same implementation and of course the compilation with <memory_resource> when compiled in c++17 mode.  
  
https://github.com/schorsch1976/serialization/commit/1a0ab95594da0a818134308d04dd43e491c01d00  
  
What i did to make it working with std::pmr::string on my current code base is a wrapper that can accomplish my desired behaviour but at the cost of a different serialization format as boost::serialization handles std::string and std::pmr::string differently as totally different types. I did this in my project as this change is not upstream and i don't want to carry a fork of boost. I would prefer to bring it upstream. Different projects could then just switch their representation and be done with it.  
  
Hope this makes it more clear what the purpose is.

---

## Comment 4

> Username: robertramey  
> Created_at: 2023-08-29 22:58:54 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/serialization/pull/269#issuecomment-1698251099  

I spent some time looking into this.  
  
I'm thinking you're not thinking big enough.  I think the correct way to consider this is for the collection serialization code to be enhanced so it takes any allocator via a template parameter.  That way ALL the code for present and future collections could be serialized without modifying files all over the place - which is of course very error prone.  
  
And there is the line in the test code   
> 	// fails but why?  
	//result += PerformTest<std::wstring, 	boost::archive::xml_oarchive, 		boost::archive::xml_iarchive>();  
	//result += PerformTest<std::pmr::wstring, boost::archive::xml_oarchive, boost::archive::xml_iarchive>();  
#	  
  
I think this is worthy idea, but needs more thought.

---

## Comment 5

> Username: robertramey  
> Created_at: 2023-08-29 23:00:09 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/serialization/pull/269#issuecomment-1698251995  

And change the name of the PR to something more useful such as "extend collection serialization to all allocators"

---

## Comment 6

> Username: schorsch1976  
> Created_at: 2023-08-30 05:56:46 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/serialization/pull/269#issuecomment-1698537710  

I take a look into it.

---
