# #71 Further test cases and fixes for #11211 [Merged]

> Username: daminetreg  
> Created at: 2015-04-26 19:51:02 UTC  
> Updated at: 2015-04-29 13:26:48 UTC  
> Merged at: 2015-04-29 08:16:45 UTC  
> Closed at: 2015-04-29 08:16:45 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/fusion/pull/71  

Relates to : https://svn.boost.org/trac/boost/ticket/11211  
  
This removes the BOOST_CONSTEXPR macro from constructors generated by DEFINE_STRUCT_INLINE as they were generating the same error.  
  
I also added some test cases for this. It runs under   
- clang v3.5.1 with std=c++11 & std=c++14  
- g++ v4.9.2 with std=c++11 & std=c++14   
  
While I was doing the changes, I noticed that we may get more errors with BOOST_CONSTEXPR, as this was added in alot of place, and I'm not sure if we won't get more surprises as those in #11211.  
  
@Flast did you make an auto-replace where BOOST_FUSION_GPU_ENABLED appeared or did you put them individually ? If it was made with auto-replace I think we have to take a tour on each place where it appears and determine if it makes sense, as GPU_ENABLED is not the same use case I think.

---

## Comment 1

> Username: Flast  
> Created_at: 2015-04-29 07:47:39 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/fusion/pull/71#issuecomment-97336263  

> @Flast did you make an auto-replace where BOOST_FUSION_GPU_ENABLED appeared or did you put them individually ?  
  
I inserted the macros by hand; i.e. no auto generated.  
  
> GPU_ENABLED is not the same use case I think.  
  
Yes, I think so.

---

## Comment 2

> Username: daminetreg  
> Created_at: 2015-04-29 08:44:57 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/fusion/pull/71#issuecomment-97353933  

Ok nice @Flast, this means we don't have to fear more problems. :+1:   
  
Thanks @djowel for merging. :smile:

---

## Comment 3

> Username: djowel  
> Created_at: 2015-04-29 08:59:45 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/fusion/pull/71#issuecomment-97357268  

No need to thank me. I should be the one to thank you guys!

---

## Comment 4

> Username: Flast  
> Created_at: 2015-04-29 09:06:01 UTC  
> Updated_at: 2015-04-29 09:23:42 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/fusion/pull/71#discussion_r29319932  

@daminetreg I got a error under C++98 mode with trailing comma.

---

## Comment 5

> Username: daminetreg  
> Created_at: 2015-04-29 13:26:48 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/fusion/pull/71#discussion_r29334680  

Oh yes you are right. It's in else case when no variadics support, then this way of writing doesn't work, actually it should never compile when BOOST_PP_VARIADICS is disabled. I tested with BOOST_PP_VARIADICS enabled all the time for this PR.  
  
I'll make myself a script to avoid forgetting such combinations. I'll make a PR to fix it.

---
