# #18 Add minimal cmake support [Closed]

> Username: Mike-Devel  
> Created at: 2018-12-13 22:12:12 UTC  
> Updated at: 2018-12-25 15:55:55 UTC  
> Closed at: 2018-12-18 16:36:22 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18  

Allows the integration of a local Boost.Integer copy into a cmake project via `add_subdirectory( libs/integer )`

---

## Comment 1

> Username: pdimov  
> Created_at: 2018-12-14 00:05:40 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#issuecomment-447166262  

```  
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/boostorg/assert.git ../static_assert  
```

---

## Comment 2

> Username: Mike-Devel  
> Created_at: 2018-12-15 17:09:50 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#issuecomment-447583056  

Sorry. Will fix once I'm back on a dev machine.

---

## Comment 3

> Username: Mike-Devel  
> Created_at: 2018-12-16 12:14:31 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#issuecomment-447638309  

Let's see if this passes CI.   
  
Btw.: Is there a special reason, why most travis scripts on boost are only run for master and develop? It is a bit annoying if you first want to test your changes on your own branch on your own travis account (which usually has a much lower delay than the boost one).

---

## Comment 4

> Username: pdimov  
> Created_at: 2018-12-16 16:36:14 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#issuecomment-447657018  

I usually enable feature branches as well in my .yml files. But in case they aren't, you can modify the .yml files on your branch while testing it.

---

## Comment 5

> Username: Lastique  
> Created_at: 2018-12-18 16:36:22 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#issuecomment-448284363  

A limited CMakeLists.txt is added in 1311077. Thanks.

---

## Comment 6

> Username: Mike-Devel  
> Created_at: 2018-12-18 17:28:30 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#issuecomment-448302331  

I see I forgot the throw_exception dependency in my PR, but is there a reason, you don't want the CMakeLists.txt file to be tested at all?

---

## Comment 7

> Username: Lastique  
> Created_at: 2018-12-18 18:12:53 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#issuecomment-448316546  

> is there a reason, you don't want the CMakeLists.txt file to be tested at all?  
  
The test doesn't really test anything. It may still pass if there are missing dependencies from one of the headers not included by `boost/integer.hpp`.  
  
Generally, I don't see much point in testing the build system or metadata. The dependency list may go out of sync, but I'm not sure how to test it better and not cause much maintenance annoyance. Maybe it should be generated by boostdep. @pdimov, could it?

---

## Comment 8

> Username: pdimov  
> Created_at: 2018-12-18 18:22:49 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#issuecomment-448319686  

It can in principle, I had it done (`boostdep --cmake <library>`), but at the end decided against using it.  
  
For testing I just run the tests using CMake.

---

## Comment 9

> Username: Mike-Devel  
> Created_at: 2018-12-20 15:25:13 UTC  
> Updated_at: 2018-12-20 15:28:07 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#issuecomment-449034725  

> Maybe it should be generated by boostdep.   
  
I'd really prefer if boost libraries weren't so careless about adding boost-internal dependencies. At most I'd use boostdep to get the transitive dependencies of my dependencies.  
  
> The test doesn't really test anything. It may still pass if there are missing dependencies from one of the headers not included by boost/integer.hpp.  
  
I have to admit, that I didn't pay enough attention and thought `boost/integer.hpp` would just transitively include all Boost.Integer headers, but that is easy to fix. However, I dont' understand your reasoning: Effectively you are saying tests are worthless, because they are not complete? You can say the same about almost every single unit-test out there.

---

## Comment 10

> Username: Lastique  
> Created_at: 2018-12-20 16:18:08 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#issuecomment-449052296  

> I'd really prefer if boost libraries weren't so careless about adding boost-internal dependencies.  
  
Being careful about dependencies does not imply introducing the potential for errors due to a missing dependency. Or having to manually spell and maintain the list. Even without me modifying Boost.Integer, stuff gets moved around Boost from time to time, which can make the list inactual.  
  
> Effectively you are saying tests are worthless, because they are not complete?  
  
I'm saying that (a) the original test was not testing what it intended to (i.e. it would not register a missing dependency) and (b) that I don't see much point in testing the build system, in general. We don't test Boost.Build in libraries, the build system has to be tested on its own.  
  
What is worth testing and what I forsee to go out of sync easily is the dependency list. But as I said, I would prefer it to be auto-generated instead of tested. (It's not a prerequisite for PR, just a thought.)

---

## Review 11 [Commented]

> Username: jeking3  
> Created_at: 2018-12-25 15:54:46 UTC  
> State: COMMENTED  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#pullrequestreview-187799974  

📁 test/test_cmake/main.cpp

```diff
   2 |+ 
   3 |+ int main() {
   4 |+ 
```

> Username: jeking3  
> Created_at: 2018-12-25 15:54:46 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#discussion_r243916722  

Without adding code that the Boost.Integer link library depends on, this may not be a complete test.

> Username: jeking3  
> Created_at: 2018-12-25 15:55:55 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/integer/pull/18#discussion_r243916774  

Nevermind, I see there's no link library. :)


---
