# #36  Upgrade boost::parameter::template_keyword and move to public interface; improve documentation [Merged]

> Username: CromwellEnage  
> Created at: 2018-11-21 10:49:26 UTC  
> Updated at: 2018-11-22 04:29:09 UTC  
> Merged at: 2018-11-22 03:31:40 UTC  
> Closed at: 2018-11-22 03:31:40 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/parameter/pull/36  

<boost/parameter/aux_/template_keyword.hpp>  
<boost/parameter/template_keyword.hpp>  
* Apply a modified version of David Abrahams' patch from <https://svn.boost.org/trac10/ticket/2793> which eliminates the need to wrap function types in boost::function or std::function instantiations.  
* Also move BOOST_PARAMETER_TEMPLATE_KEYWORD macro definition to <boost/parameter/template_keyword.hpp>, but #include this new header file in <boost/parameter/name.hpp> for backward compatibility.  
  
"test/function_type_tpl_param.cpp"  
* Demonstrate that keyword types generated by BOOST_PARAMETER_TEMPLATE_KEYWORD now store function types as-is without wrapping them in boost::function or std::function instantiations.  
  
"doc/reference.rst"  
"doc/html/reference.html"  
* Add documentation for boost::parameter::template_keyword.  
* Add BOOST_PARAMETER_DISABLE_PERFECT_FORWARDING as a configuration macro.  
* Mention by what libraries other macros which are not a part of Boost.Parameter itself are defined.  
* Add "Configuration Macros" subsection "...Outside Of This Library", which mentions which non-Boost.Parameter macros can be altered to affect the Boost.Parameter configuration.

---

## Comment 1

> Username: eldiener  
> Created_at: 2018-11-22 03:31:31 UTC  
> Url: https://github.com/boostorg/parameter/pull/36#issuecomment-440902459  

I am going to merge this but I have some comments.  
  
- The previous documentation did not specify what header file was necessary for the BOOST_PARAMETER_TEMPLATE_KEYWORD macro. So I think you would have been justified in not including \<boost/parameter/template_keyword.hpp\> in \<boost/parameter/name.hpp\>, although I understanding doing so for backward compatibility. No doubt there are end-users who figured out to include <boost/parameter/name.hpp\> in order to use the BOOST_PARAMETER_TEMPLATE_KEYWORD so if we do not continue to support this. even if you now document that BOOST_PARAMETER_TEMPLATE_KEYWORD needs the \<boost/parameter/template_keyword.hpp\> header file, they would be surprised.  
-  I realize what a tremendous job you have done upgrading the documentation. But I think some of your explanations for the new macros might still confuse end-users. This is particularly true when your explanation is of the form that merely or mostly says "this macro expands to" with some code, or when your explanation says that with perfectly forwarding the code is etc. etc. otherwise the code is etc. etc. In other words I think that if you look at your explanations from the end-user's point of view you will see that you really need to explain in technical terms what these macros do, or what perfect forwarding actually means in the contect of some macro, rather than in showing a whole bunch of code that is going to be very difficult for the end-user to understand as it relates to the macro being used.  
- It might be better to have your new macros explained in the documentation after all of the previous macros are explained, while still keeping your new macros in the proper section. This would show the end-user the previous macros in the exact same order he had seen them in the docs as before, while highlighting that you have added new macros as part of the new functionality.

---
